Adding more Webots Simulation Tutorials (#3357)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/Tutorials/Advanced/Simulators/Webots/Setting-Up-Simulation-Webots.rst

        See the `Webots ROS 2 Windows installation instructions <https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots_ros2/wiki/Windows-Installation-Guide>`_.

    .. group-tab:: macOS

        The Linux and ROS commands of this tutorial must be run in a pre-configured Linux Virtual Machine (VM).
        See the `Webots ROS 2 macOS installation instructions <https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots_ros2/wiki/macOS-Installation-Guide>`_.

To install ``webots_ros2_driver`` from a terminal, proceed with the following commands.

.. code-block:: console

        sudo apt update
        sudo apt install ros-{DISTRO}-webots-ros2-driver
        source /opt/ros/{DISTRO}/setup.bash

.. note::

    If you want to install the whole ``webots_ros2`` package, follow these `instructions <https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots_ros2/wiki/Getting-Started>`_.

Tasks
-----

1 Create the package structure
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Let's organize the code in a custom ROS 2 package.
Create a new package named ``my_package`` from the ``src`` folder of your ROS 2 workspace.
Change the current directory of your terminal to ``ros2_ws/src`` and run:

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Python

        .. code-block:: console

>             ros2 pkg create --build-type ament_python --node-name my_robot_driver my_package --dependencies rclpy geometry_msgs webots_ros2_driver

Reviewer: To avoid a warning from `ros2 pkg` nowadays, we should add in the `--license` flag:

```suggestion
            ros2 pkg create --build-type ament_python --license Apache-2.0 --node-name my_robot_driver my_package --dependencies rclpy geometry_msgswebots_ros2_driver
```

        The ``--dependencies rclpy geometry_msgs webots_ros2_driver`` option specifies the packages needed by the ``my_robot_driver.py`` plugin in the ``package.xml`` file.

        Let's add a ``launch`` and a ``worlds`` folder inside the ``my_package`` folder.

        .. code-block:: console

                cd my_package
                mkdir launch
                mkdir worlds

        You should end up with the following folder structure:

        .. code-block:: console

            src/
            └── my_package/
                ├── launch/
                ├── my_package/
                │   ├── __init__.py
                │   └── my_robot_driver.py
                ├── resource/
                │   └── my_package
                ├── test/
                │   ├── test_copyright.py
                │   ├── test_flake8.py
                │   └── test_pep257.py
                ├── worlds/
                ├── package.xml
                ├── setup.cfg
                └── setup.py

    .. group-tab:: C++

        .. code-block:: console

>             ros2 pkg create --build-type ament_cmake --node-name MyRobotDriver my_package --dependencies rclcpp geometry_msgs webots_ros2_driver pluginlib

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            ros2 pkg create --build-type ament_cmake --license Apache-2.0 --node-name MyRobotDriver my_package --dependencies rclcpp geometry_msgs webots_ros2_driver pluginlib
```

            touch my_robot_driver.xml
            touch include/my_package/MyRobotDriver.hpp

        You should end up with the following folder structure:

        .. code-block:: console

            src/
            └── my_package/
                ├── include/
                │   └── my_package/
                │       └── MyRobotDriver.hpp
                ├── launch/
                ├── resource/
                ├── src/
                │   └── MyRobotDriver.cpp
                ├── worlds/
                ├── CMakeList.txt
                ├── my_robot_driver.xml
                └── package.xml

2 Setup the simulation world
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You will need a world file containing a robot to launch your simulation.
:download:`Download this world file <Code/my_world.wbt>` and move it inside ``my_package/worlds/``.

This is actually a fairly simple text file you can visualize in a text editor.
A simple robot is already included in this ``my_world.wbt`` world file.

.. note::

    In case you want to learn how to create your own robot model in Webots, you can check this `tutorial <https://cyberbotics.com/doc/guide/tutorial-6-4-wheels-robot>`_.

> 3 Edit the my_robot_driver plugin
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3 Edit the my_robot_driver plugin
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

        ``pluginlib`` is responsible for loading the class based on the specified information.

.. note::

    This simple URDF file doesn't contain any link or joint information about the robot as it is not needed in this tutorial.
    However, URDF files usually contain much more information as explained in the :doc:`../../../Intermediate/URDF/URDF-Main` tutorial.

.. note::

    Here the plugin does not take any input parameter, but this can be achieved with a tag containing the parameter name.

    .. tabs::

        .. group-tab:: Python

            .. code-block:: xml

                <plugin type="my_package.my_robot_driver.MyRobotDriver">
                    <parameterName>someValue</parameterName>
                </plugin>

        .. group-tab:: C++

            .. code-block:: xml

                <plugin type="my_robot_driver::MyRobotDriver">
                    <parameterName>someValue</parameterName>
                </plugin>

    This is namely used to pass parameters to existing Webots device plugins (see :ref:`Updating my_robot.urdf`).

5 Create the launch file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Let's create now the launch file to easily launch the simulation and the ROS controller with a single command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's create the launch file to easily launch the simulation and the ROS controller with a single command.
```

The ``controller_url_prefix()`` method is mandatory, as it allows ``webots_ros2_driver`` to add the correct protocol prefix depending on your platform.
The ``robot_description`` parameter holds the contents of the URDF file which refers to the ``MyRobotDriver`` plugin.
You can see the ``driver`` node as the interface that connects your controller plugin to the target robot.

.. literalinclude:: Code/robot_launch.py
    :language: python
    :dedent: 4
    :lines: 19-27

After that, the two nodes are set to be launched in the ``LaunchDescription`` constructor:

.. literalinclude:: Code/robot_launch.py
    :language: python
    :dedent: 4
    :lines: 29-31

Finally, an optional part is added in order to shutdown all the nodes once Webots terminates (e.g., when it gets closed from the graphical user interface).

.. literalinclude:: Code/robot_launch.py
    :language: python
    :dedent: 8
    :lines: 32-37

.. note::

    More details on ``webots_ros2_driver`` and ``WebotsLauncher`` arguments can be found `on the nodes reference page <https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots_ros2/wiki/References-Nodes>`_.

> 6 Edit additional files
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6 Edit additional files
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: Python

>         Finally, before you can start the launch file, you have to modify the ``setup.py`` file to include the extra files you added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Before you can start the launch file, you have to modify the ``setup.py`` file to include the extra files you added.
```

        Open ``my_package/setup.py`` and replace its contents with:

        .. literalinclude:: Code/setup.py
            :language: python

        This sets-up the package and adds in the ``data_files`` variable the newly added files: ``my_world.wbt``, ``my_robot.urdf`` and ``robot_launch.py``.

    .. group-tab:: C++

>         Finally, before you can start the launch file, you have to modify ``CMakeLists.txt`` and ``my_robot_driver.xml`` files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Before you can start the launch file, you have to modify ``CMakeLists.txt`` and ``my_robot_driver.xml`` files:
```

        * ``CMakeLists.txt`` defines the compilation rules of your plugin.
        * ``my_robot_driver.xml`` is necessary for the pluginlib to find your Webots ROS 2 plugin.

        Open ``my_package/my_robot_driver.xml`` and replace its contents with:

        .. literalinclude:: Code/my_robot_driver.xml
            :language: xml

>         Finally, open ``my_package/CMakeLists.txt`` and replace its contents with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Open ``my_package/CMakeLists.txt`` and replace its contents with:
```

        .. literalinclude:: Code/CMakeLists.txt
            :language: cmake

>         It exports the plugin configuration file with the ``pluginlib_export_plugin_description_file()`` command.
> 
>         Next, it defines a shared library of your C++ plugin ``src/MyRobotDriver.cpp``.
>         It sets the ``include`` directories to include and specifies the library dependencies using ``ament_target_dependencies()``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The CMakeLists.txt exports the plugin configuration file with the ``pluginlib_export_plugin_description_file()``, defines a shared library of the C++ plugin ``src/MyRobotDriver.cpp``, and sets the include and library dependencies using ``ament_target_dependencies()``
```

            :language: cpp

        In the ``my_package/src`` folder, create a source file named ``ObstacleAvoider.cpp`` with this code:

        .. literalinclude:: Code/ObstacleAvoider.cpp
            :language: cpp

        This node will create a publisher for the command and subscribe to the sensors topics here:

        .. literalinclude:: Code/ObstacleAvoider.cpp
            :language: cpp
            :lines: 6-16

        When a measurement is received from the left sensor it will be copied to a member field:

        .. literalinclude:: Code/ObstacleAvoider.cpp
            :language: cpp
            :lines: 19-22

        Finally, a message will be sent to the ``/cmd_vel`` topic when a measurement from the right sensor is received.
        The ``command_message`` will register at least a forward speed in ``linear.x`` in order to make the robot move when no obstacle is detected.
        If any of the two sensors detect an obstacle, ``command_message`` will also register a rotational speed in ``angular.z`` in order to make the robot turn right.

        .. literalinclude:: Code/ObstacleAvoider.cpp
            :language: cpp
            :lines: 24-38

> 10 Updating additional files
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10 Updating additional files
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

You have to modify these two other files to launch your new node.

.. tabs::

>     .. group-tab:: Python
>         Edit ``setup.py`` and replace ``'console_scripts'`` with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    .. group-tab:: Python
    
        Edit ``setup.py`` and replace ``'console_scripts'`` with:
```

        .. literalinclude:: Code/setup_sensor.py
            :language: python
            :dedent: 8
            :lines: 24-27

        This will add an entry point for the ``obstacle_avoider`` node.

    .. group-tab:: C++

        Edit ``CMakeLists.txt`` and add the compilation and installation of the ``obstacle_avoider``:

        .. literalinclude:: Code/CMakeLists_sensor.txt
            :language: cmake

Go to the file ``robot_launch.py`` and replace ``def generate_launch_description():`` with:

.. literalinclude:: Code/robot_launch_sensor.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 11-44

This will create an ``obstacle_avoider`` node that will be included in the ``LaunchDescription``.

11 Test the obstacle avoidance code
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> As in task ``7``, launch the simulation from a terminal in your ROS 2 workspace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Launch the simulation from a terminal in your ROS 2 workspace:
```
